Hello and welcome back to the course and deep learning.
Today we're talking about the neuron which is the basic building block of artificial neural networks.
So let's get started.
Previously we saw an image which looked like this.
And these are actual real life neurons which have been smeared onto a glass and colored a little bit
and they are observed through a microscope.
So this is what they look like.
As you can see quite an interesting structure a body and then lots of different tails kind of branches
coming out of them.
And this is very interesting.
But the question is how can we recreate that in a machine because we really need to recreate it machine
since the whole purpose of deep learning is to mimic how the human brain works in the hope that by doing
so we're going to create something amazing we're going to create an amazing infrastructure for machines
to be able to learn.
And why do we hope for that.
Well because the human brain is well just happens to be one of the most powerful learning learning tools
in on the planet or like learning mechanisms on the planet.
And we just hope that if we recreate that we'll have something as awesome as that.
So our challenge right now our very first step to creating artificial neural networks is to recreate
a neuron.
So how do we do that.
Well first of all let's have a closer look at what it actually is.
This image was first created by Spanish neuroscientists and Jagger among you Karl in 1899 and what he
did was he died neurons in actual brain tissue and look at them under a microscope.
And while he was looking at them he actually drew what he saw and this is what he saw.
He saw two neurons or two large neurons over there at the top which had all these branches coming out
of them towards their top parts.
And then each one you had this a rod or like thread coming out towards the bottom very long one.
And yes so that's what he saw.
And now you know technology has advanced quite a lot and we have seen neurons much closer in more detail
and now we can actually draw what it looks like dog grammatically so let's have a look at that.
Here's a neuron This is what looks like very similar to what Santiago or someone drew over here and
here.
And this neuron what we can see is that it's got a body.
That's the main part of the neuron and then it's got some branches at the top which are called dendrites
and it's also got an axon which is that long tail of the neuron.
And so what are these dendrites and went for and what's the axon for.
Well the key point to understand here is that neurons by themselves are pretty much useless.
It's like it's like an ant.
Right.
An ant on its own can do much like five ants together maybe they can pick something up but again.
They don't they can't build an anthill they're calling establish a colony.
They can't work together as a as a huge organism.
But at the same time when you have lots and lots of ads like you have a million and so they can build
a whole colony and they can build an anthill.
Same thing with neurons.
By itself it's not that strong but when you have lots of neurons together they work together to do magic.
And how do they work together.
That's a question.
Well that's what the dendrites and acts on are for.
So the dendrites are kind of like the receivers of the signal for the neuron and Axon is the transmitter
of the signal for the neuron.
And here's an image of how it all works conceptually.
So at the top you've got a neuron and you can see that it's dead rides are connected to axons of other
neurons that are like even further away above it.
And then the signal from this neuron travels down its axon and connects or passes onto the dendrites
of the next neuron.
And that's how they're connected.
And in that small image over there you can see that the axon doesn't actually touch the dendrites a
lot.
A lot of machine learning or like a few Machine Learning scientists are very adamant about that the
fact that it doesn't touch it like the room it doesn't touch it has been proven that there is a physical
connection there.
But the point that we're interested in is that that connection between them that the whole concept of
the signal being passed.
That's called the sign ups.
You can see over there in that little image.
That's a figure bracket is a sign ups and that's a term we're going to be using.
So instead of calling our artificial neurons the lines that were going to have the connectors for artificial
neurones we're going to be calling them axons or dendrites because then the question is whose connection
is this is that that neurons are this neurons we just call and we're just going to call them sinuses.
And that's kind of just answers all questions right away.
That's just basically where the signals pass doesn't matter who that element belongs to they're just
a representation of the signal being passed and we'll see that just now.
So basically that's how a neuron works.
And yeah.
So let's move on to how are we going to represent neuron are going to create neurons in the machine.
So we're moving away now we're moving away from neuroscience and moving into technology.
And here we go.
So here is our neuron.
Also sometimes called the node then your own gets some input signals and it has an output signal.
So dendrites and axons remember but again we're going to call these sentences.
And then the these input signals we're going to represent them of other neurons as well.
So in this specific case you can see that this neuron this green neuron is getting signals from yellow
neurons.
And in this course we're going to try and stick to a certain color coding regime where yellow means
an input layer.
So basically all of the neurons that are on the outer layer or in the first front of where are the signals
coming in and buy signal.
It might be like a bit of an over overkill to call this a signal it's just basically input values.
So so you know how even like in a simple linear regression you have input values and then you have a
predicted value.
Same thing here.
So you have input values and there they are the yellow ones.
And then on the right we will see just now it'll be red.
It'll be the output value.
The other thing that I wanted to point out here is that in this specific example we're looking at a
neuron which is getting its signals from the input layer neuron.
So there are also neurons but their input layer neurons sometimes you'll have neurons which get their
signal from other hidden layer neurons.
So from other greenhorns and the concept is going to be exactly the same and just in this case we for
simplicity's sake we're portraying this example.
And in terms of the input layer the way to think about it is in the in the analogy of the human brain
the input layer is your sensors.
Right so whatever you can see here feel touch or smell.
And of course it's like there's there's a lot of things you can see there's a lot of information coming
in but those are your.
That's what your brain is limited to IS PRETTY MUCH A is free much lives in a box made out of bones.
And it's only just it's it's a mind blowing concept to think about that your brain is just locked in
a black box and the only thing like it can't see you can hear the only thing is getting his electrical
impulses coming from these organs that you have which are called Your Ears nose eyes you know your sense
of touch and whatever and you and your and your taste.
Right so you're just getting signals but it basically lives in this dark black box and it's making making
sense of the world through your senses.
It's it's phenomenal.
And so yeah.
So you have these inputs that are coming in in terms of human brain.
Those are your five senses and in terms of machine learning or deep learning that is basically your
input value so you're independent parables and we'll get that in a second so your input values the signal
is passed through sign ups as to the neuron and then your neuron has an output value that it passes
it further on down the chain.
In this specific case in terms of color coding again yellow means input layer so we kind of simplifying
everything here we're saying we're only going to have like the input layer and then we're going to have
one hidden layer with the green which is the hinterland then we're going to have the output there right
away.
So just so that we can get used to these colors for now.
So there we go.
That's the basic structure so now let's look in a bit more detail at these different elements that we
have.
So we've got the input layer and what do we have here.
Well we have these inputs which are in fact independent variables soon different variable one into better
variable to independent variable.
The important thing to remember here is that these independent variables are all for one single observation.
So think of it as just one row in your database one observation you just take all of the independent
variables you know maybe it's the age of the person there the amount of money in the bank accounts and
then how how do they drive or walk to work what true method of Trump's protection do they use.
So but that's all descriptors of one specific person that you are either you're training your model
on or you're performing some prediction on and the other thing you need to know about these variables
is that you need to standardize them.
So you need to either standardize them which means make sure that they have a mean of zero variance
one or you can also sometimes and headland will point out these situations in a bit more detail perhaps
in the practical terms you might come across these sometimes you might want to not standardize you might
want to normalize them meaning that instead of making sure the mean and immunization variance is one
you just take you know to subtract the minimum value and then you divide by the maximum minus a minimum
sum by the range of your values and the four you get values between 0 and 1 and it depends on this scenario
you might want to do one or the other but basically you want all of these variables to be quite similar
in in about the same a range of values and Y ways that well all of these values are going to go into
a neural network where as we'll see just now there'll be added up and multiplied by weights added up
and so on and just going to be just going to be easier for the neural network to process them if they're
all about the same.
And and in fact you know that's that's just how it is going to be able to work properly.
And if you want to read more about standardization normalization and other things that you can do if
you input variables are a good additional reading paper is called efficient back prob by young looking
1998.
The links over there so young AE and we're actually going to talk more about this phenomenal person
in the space of deep learning in the part of the course we were talking about can delusional neural
networks and you will you'll see that this is definitely a person who knows what he's talking about.
He's a close friend of Geoffrey Hinton who we've already seen who've already mentioned some in this
paper you'll learn more about sanitization and normalization but also you can pick up lots of other
different tips and tricks and you'll be a good a good source for additional reading as you go through
this quarter.
So yeah check it out if you're interested in some additional reading.
And there we go.
So that's what we do if the variables.
And here we've got the output value.
So what can our output value be.
Well we've got a couple of options.
Output value can be it can be continuous.
Like for instance price it can be binary for this as a personal exit or we'll stay or it can be a categorical
variable and physical a categorical variable.
The important thing to remember here is that in that case your output value only just one it'll be several
output values because these will be a dummy variables which will be representing your categories and
that just this how it works and it just important to remember that in that case that's how you're going
to be getting your categories out of the artificial neural network.
But let's go back to a simple case of one output value.
And now let's one more point or kind of like the point I really made I just wanted to reiterate this
point on the left you've got a single observation so one or off human from your dataset and on the right
you have a single observation as well.
And that is the same observation.
So important to remember that like whatever inputs you're putting in that's for one row and then the
output you get that is for that same exact row or if you're training a neural network then you know
you're putting the inputs in for that one row you're putting the output in for that one row.
So like if you want to simplify the complexity think of it as a you know like a simple linear regression
or a multivariate linear regression.
So you're putting in your values you have the output there's like there's no question about it when
we're talking about things like regression because we're so used to it same thing here it's nothing
too complex.
We're just putting in values we're getting output but just remember that every time it's one row you're
dealing with so you don't get confused and start putting in like thinking that these are different different
rows that you're putting into your artificial neural network or something this is all just values in
that one rows a different observation different characteristics or or attributes relating to that one
observation every single time.
Okay.
So next thing I want to talk about here is the or are the sign ups is is the sign of says here we've
got sciences and they all actually get assigned weights weights we're going to talk more about weights
for the down but in short weights are crucial to our official neural network networks functioning because
the weights are how neural networks learn by adjusting the weights and the neural network decides in
every single case what's seeing a signal is important what signal is not important to a certain neuron
what signal gets passed along and what signal doesn't get passed along or two what strength.
To what extent signals get passed along.
So weights are crucial they are and they are the things that get adjusted through the process of learning.
Like when when you're training on artificial neural network you're basically adjusting all of the weights
in all the sinuses across this whole neural network.
And that's where a gradient descent and back propagation come into play and those are concepts that
will also discuss.
And so basically those are the weights that's how we need to know for now.
And here we've got the neuron so signals go into the neuron.
And what happens in the neuron.
So this is the the interesting part.
Like we're talking about the neuron today what happens inside the neuron.
So a few things happen first thing and the first step is that all of these values that is getting get
added up.
So it takes the added.
So the weighted sum of all of the input values that is getting very simple right.
It's very very straightforward just add up multiplied by the way add them up and then it applies an
activation function.
Now we're going to talk more about activation functions the number is basically a function that is assigned
to this neuron or to this whole layer and it is applied to this weighted sum and then from that the
neuron understands if it needs to pass on a signal like that's the signal that it passes on that the
function applied to the weight at some.
But basically depending on the function the neuron will either pass on a signal or it won't pass that
signal on and that's exactly what happened here in step 3.
The neuron passes on that signal to the next neuron down the line and that's what we're going to talk
about in the next material because it is quite an important topic we want to delve deeper into the activation
function but hopefully for now everything is should be pretty clear how you have got input values you've
got weights you've got the sinuses you've got something that you know happens in Neuron you've got weight
at some and then activation function applied and then that is passed down the line and that is just
repeated throughout the whole neural network on and on and on and on.
You know thousands hundreds of thousands of times depending on how big how many neurons you have how
many sentences you have in your neural network.
So there we go.
Hope you enjoyed it too this will come we'll see you next time.
And until then enjoy deep learning.